The Project Gutenberg EBook of Chambers's Journal of Popular Literature,
Science, and Art, No. 748, April 27, 1878, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Chambers's Journal of Popular Literature, Science, and Art, No. 748, April 27, 1878

Author: Various

Editor: William Chambers
        Robert Chambers

Release Date: September 20, 2020 [EBook #63247]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHAMBERS'S JOURNAL ***




Produced by Susan Skinner and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net









[Illustration: CHAMBERS’S JOURNAL

OF

POPULAR

LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND ART.

Fourth Series

CONDUCTED BY WILLIAM AND ROBERT CHAMBERS.

NO. 748.      SATURDAY, APRIL 27, 1878.      PRICE 1½_d._]




OUR CANAL POPULATION.


As much interest has latterly been roused concerning the population
habitually living in the English canal traffic boats, we offer the
following particulars on the subject from the personal observation of a
correspondent. His narrative is as follows:

After allowing one or two barges to pass, the occupants of which seemed
to be surly ill-favoured folks, one at length came in sight which
answered our purpose, and we shall begin with it.

A cleanly dressed woman looked up at us with a pleasant smile upon her
face as we bade her ‘good-day,’ her husband at the same time answering
our salutation heartily. Whilst waiting for the lock to fill he came
to our side and volunteered some sensible remarks on the great saving
of water effected by the use of the side-pound system, which led to a
conversation between us, and eventually to an invitation to step on
board and go with them as far as Brentford. Accordingly we stepped on
board; but at first had some little difficulty in bestowing our person
out of the way of the long tiller, which swept completely over the
available standing-room in rear of the cabin door, and momentarily
threatened to force us overboard.

When at length we were well under way, and the man had relieved his
wife at the helm, she invited us to inspect the interior of their
cabin, apologising for its unfurnished state as compared with other
cabins, on the ground that she did not habitually accompany her husband
on his voyages, preferring to stay at home, when possible, to keep
the house in order. With no little pride, however, she pointed out
the usual arrangement of cupboards, lockers, shelves, hooks, &c., by
which the limited space of nine feet by six was made to contain the
utensils and necessaries for the use of a whole family. As was natural
to a good housewife, she dilated mostly upon the cooking capabilities
of a wonderfully small fire-place, erected close by the doorway, at
which, she averred, she could cook as readily as at home. We looked
sharply round for the sleeping accommodation, but failing to discover
anything resembling a bedstead—other than the tops of the lockers
placed round two sides of the cabin, and which we calculated could not
possibly accommodate more than three persons—were considerably puzzled
to understand how such families as we had seen on the other boats were
disposed of at night. The roof was not high enough to admit of hammocks
being slung; nor was the space between the lockers sufficient to
allow of a bed being made up on the floor. Unable to solve the puzzle
ourselves, we suggested that surely, where there was a family of five
or six children, they did not all sleep in the cabin.

‘Indeed, but they do,’ replied our hostess. ‘And this is how they
manage. The father and mother with the youngest baby sleep at the end
there, with maybe the next youngest at their feet; then a couple of the
children at this side; and another, or two, under here.’

‘Under here’ being the space beneath the father’s bed, a very kennel,
closed on all sides except a portion of the front corresponding to the
width of the floor—about three feet. That children even could sleep
in so confined a space without suffering permanently in health seems
contrary to all natural laws; but as a matter of fact, bargemen and
their families appear to be remarkably healthy. Expressing our surprise
that any person could possibly sleep in so cramped a space, our
informant continued: ‘Bless you! that’s nothing. When there’s a butty,
he sleeps as best he can on the floor.’

‘And pray, what is a butty?’ we inquire.

‘Well, you see, by rights there must be two able-bodied people on board
every boat, besides a lad or a lass to take turn about at driving.
Generally it’s the man’s wife. But sometimes it happens as she’s sick
or what not; and then they have to get a growing lad of sixteen or
seventeen to butty with them for a voyage or two; and then of course he
lives and sleeps on the boat along with the family. Not as you must run
away with the idea that we all of us live entirely in the boats, as a
good many of us have as good homes on shore as you’d wish to put foot
in. But on the other hand, there’s as many more who don’t sleep out of
the boat once a year, and hardly know what the inside of a house is
like.

‘Do I mean to say that children are born in these cabins? Indeed I
do, sir. What is more, many’s the child that is not only born on
board but _dies_ on board too; for as I told you, there’s many that
have no other home than the boat, and no friends but what are boatmen
too. So what _are_ they to do? with their husbands a-travelling all
over the country; Birmingham one week, and Brentford here maybe, the
next. Plenty of ’em indeed have got so used to the boats it would be
downright cruel if they were to be compelled to live in a house ashore
like decent people; because, you see, everything’s so different, and
they’ve become so used to making shift in little room, that they’d be
regularly lost in a house.

‘How do they get on when they’re sick? Well, you see, it’s mostly a
town that we tie up at, at night, and there’s generally a doctor to
be found, however late it may be; and they get medicine that way. I
once lost a little girl on board. She was taken a little queer on the
Sunday night before we were to start on this very same voyage on the
Monday morning. It so happened that the master couldn’t get a butty,
and so we’d arranged as I should come down with him; though of course
we never dreamt as there was anything serious the matter with little
Polly, or I wouldn’t have stirred with her. All day Monday and Tuesday
the child got so much worse, that when we tied up at night I made the
master take her to a doctor and get some medicine for her. Of course we
were obliged to go on the next day, with little Polly getting worse and
worse every hour, so that at night we were afraid to take her on shore,
and had to pay a doctor to come on board and see her. I hardly liked
the thought of going on the next day; but we were on a time voyage, by
which the master was bound to be in Brentford on a certain day, and so
we had to go on. But before night little Polly died. All that evening
my master tried to get somebody to take his boat on; but it was a busy
time just then, and there wasn’t a boatman to be got for love or money.
We had some thoughts of going on ourselves; but almost as soon as it
was daylight the next morning a policeman came on board and stopped
us, saying, as no doctor had attended the child, there’d have to be
an inquest. It was no use me a-shewing him the medicine bottles, and
saying as two doctors had seen her; he wouldn’t believe us. Nor it
wasn’t till two days afterwards, after my master had been to the last
doctor and got him to give him a letter to the coroner, that we could
get leave to bury the child; which we did, with not a soul belonging to
her following her except my husband in his working clothes, I myself
being too poorly to keep the poor man company in seeing the last of her.

‘As for children being born in the cabins, sir, I know several women
who have had large families all born on board the boat while it was
making its voyage, with perhaps nobody at all to attend on them except
their husband, or some woman from another boat which chanced to be
working mates with them.

‘Both my lads can read and write; but there’s nine out of ten as you
see on the boats can’t tell “A” from a bull’s foot, and on that account
the new Act is sure to do good. But my husband can tell you more about
that than I can, and he’ll have done for a mile or two when we get
through this next lock.’

‘None such easy work after all—is it, sir?’ inquired the husband, as
after passing through several locks all within a few score paces of
each other, at every one of which he had been very hard at work opening
and closing sluices, he stepped on board the barge and took the helm
from his wife. ‘There is them as thinks we bargees have nought to do
all day except lean our arms on the tiller, smoke our pipes, and chaff
anybody we come across. But you can see for yourself, sir, as we have
all our work at times.’

Having expressed our conviction that on that point he was right, we
requested him to enlighten us on several matters connected with his
particular class, which he willingly did somewhat as follows.

‘About our earnings? Well, I suppose we can’t grumble as times go.
Take it all the year round, one week with another, I and the lads earn
perhaps a couple of pounds. We get paid mostly by the voyage—so much
a ton from one place to another; and if we could only get loaded up
as soon as we emptied, we shouldn’t make a bad thing of it; but the
worst of it is the waiting about for a load when one voyage is finished
before we can start on another. The boats the master finds; but the
horse is my own; and out of what I make I have to feed him, which must
be on the best of corn and hay that can be got for money; otherwise,
he’d never be able to get through the tramp, tramp, for five-and-twenty
or thirty miles—sometimes more—which he has to do day after day,
wet and fine. Look at that corn, sir! Better you won’t find in any
gentleman’s stable, I’ll warrant. And I find that in the long-run it
comes the cheapest, for where those as feeds their horses on anything,
wear out two or three, I don’t use up one. Of course we don’t walk the
whole day through, alongside the horse; but we take it turn about, five
or six miles at a spell; though sometimes when we are working quick
voyages, night and day that is—owners finding relays of horses—we have
regular hours to drive, like watches on board ship; but there ain’t
much of that kind of work now. Our day’s work is mostly over by dark,
sometimes sooner, sometimes later, all depending on the place we choose
to tie up at, or the time we have to wait to pass the locks.

‘Do I think that railways will do away with canals in time? No, sir;
I don’t. Because, you see, there’s lots of goods as don’t well bear
the packing and unpacking as is necessary for railway travelling, as
can be put straight on board a barge and never be shaken even, till
they are unloaded just at the very place where they are wanted. And
lots of other goods there are that _we_ can carry cheaper than the
railway, where a day or two more on the road don’t matter. Besides
which, there’s plenty of brickfields, collieries, ironworks, and such
like just on the canal banks and some distance from railroads, that
will always use barges to save the expense of carting; so that I don’t
think canals will go out of fashion yet awhile. And that’s why I’m
glad to hear as they’re passing an Act to do something for the poor
children. You see it’s just this way, sir: our people as a rule don’t
know how to read and write themselves, most of ’em having been on the
boats since they could remember, and therefore they don’t see why they
shouldn’t have the advantage of their children’s assistance in working
the barge, the same as _their_ fathers had.

‘There’s another way in which I think the Act will do good, and that
is this. It will teach our women perhaps to have a little more decency
about them than some of the worst of them have. If you’ll believe me,
sir, I see scenes on the canal sometimes, when some of the worst of
them have been paid, as I can’t bear to look at, though not nearly so
commonly now as I used to. And then again, it doesn’t always follow as
because a man and woman work the same boat that they are married. In
fact, in my opinion it would be a good thing if the lasses were not
allowed on board after they had grown up to be twelve or thirteen, as
it stands to reason that they’re nearly sure to grow up bargewomen. And
after all’s said and done, it’s no fitting life for a woman to lead. As
you’ve seen for yourself, there’s a good deal of hard work attached to
it, even on a fine day like this; but in winter-time it’s simply cruel
to a woman who has a young baby. However, I suppose when our children
are compelled to go to school, as they say this new Act compels them,
there’ll be a stop put to a good deal of what’s wrong about us, and
perhaps folks may not have so good a reason for looking upon us as
something worse than themselves. People seem to think that generally
we are a regular bad lot; but I fancy if they knew a little more about
us, they’d see that, though there _are_ some bad ones amongst us, take
us all in all we are no worse than most of our neighbours. We seem
somehow to have got a name for interfering with people as we chance to
come across; but you may see for yourself, sir, that we have quite as
much as we can do to mind our own business, and a bargeman can no more
afford to neglect his business than anybody else, if he means to do any
good in the world.

‘What becomes of us when we get old? Well, most of us stick to the
barges as long as we can; and when we are obliged to give up, if we
haven’t put by enough to keep us comfortable, which I’m sorry to say as
there ain’t many of us do, there’s generally a lock to be got or a job
of some sort at the docks; all depending on the sort of character we’ve
kept.

‘Here we are, sir, at our journey’s end for this time,’ he added, as
the boat slowly floated into a small open basin, there to remain for
the night. The boatman’s wife, being already shawled and armed with
a capacious basket, stepped on shore as soon as the boat came near
enough; and with a cheerful ‘good-night’ to us, went away to do her
marketing before the shops should close.

Tying up the boat, my bargee friend sent off the boys with the horse
to its stable, and proceeded to gather together and stow away in their
respective lockers the odds and ends which had been in use during the
day; remarking as he did so, that though there were watchmen kept in
every dock, it often happened that the barges were robbed of any loose
things which might be left about, and therefore it was that most of
the boats had a dog on board, who made a better policeman than all the
watchmen. With a last glance round he took from one of the cupboards
a dirty paper, and unfolding it for our inspection, said: ‘There, you
see, reading and writing would be of some use to us after all; for
according to what tonnage is put down there, we get paid. And as you
see, wherever we pay tolls they put down the time we pass, so that if
we get drinking or loitering about for a day the owners know it, and
make up our character according.

‘Yes; I’m going to sleep on board; but I must go and report our arrival
at the office, and see as the horse is all right first. And as for what
I’ve told you, I’m sure you’re very welcome to know it, especially
if it will only make you believe as if something was done to give
our children a little reading and writing, and to stop so many lads
and lasses being crammed together in the boats, there might be less
respectable people than bargees.’

An unclouded moon was shining upon the calm water of the canal and upon
the gaudily painted cabins of some twelve or thirteen barges, which lay
motionless in the basin, displaying no other sign of human habitation
than the thin columns of smoke which issued from their stove-pipes, as
we bade our friend ‘good-night,’ and started on our homeward walk, well
satisfied with the experience we had gained while spending an hour or
two with some of ‘our canal population.’




HELENA, LADY HARROGATE.


CHAPTER XXIII.—JASPER FEELS PERPLEXED.

Jasper Denzil, as he slowly made his elaborate toilet on the sunny
September morning which succeeded to the eventful night on which he
had espied from his window Ruth’s slight form gliding across the
lonely park, turned over many things in his mind. His man, who groaned
over the dull monotony of rural existence, and longed to be once
more in Mount Street or Bond Street lodgings, silently opined, as he
applied the ivory-backed brushes to his master’s hair or removed the
silver-gilt stoppers of the scent-bottles, that ‘the captain’ was
brooding over his turf calamities. But he was wrong. Jasper’s reverie
was on a different theme.

Who or what was this mysterious Miss Willis, this interesting orphan,
whom regard for the mythical major her defunct papa had induced Sir
Sykes to take into the bosom of his family? The conversation which he
had overheard when lurking in the frowsy garden of _The Traveller’s
Rest_ recurred again and again to his memory, and served to explain
much, but not all. That the presence beneath his roof-tree of Ruth
Willis had been imposed upon the baronet by Hold’s importunity, he well
knew. That he had with his own ears heard Hold describe her as his
sister, he well remembered, but he recalled too the sneering tone in
which the adventurer had claimed kindred with the Indian orphan.

Of one thing alone did Captain Denzil feel sure. Ruth, be her
understanding with Hold what it might, was a lady, and no
blood-relation of the rough rover who claimed to be her brother. Who
then _was_ this Ruth? Again and again Jasper’s thoughts flew back to
the little sister that had died so early, and whose untimely death was
reported to have made the owner of Carbery Chase the morose joyless
recluse that he had long been. Could it be—was it possible that the
child had not died at all, that a false registry, a sham burial, had
thrown dust in credulous eyes, and that the missing member of the
family, hidden for years from all eyes, had at length been introduced
under a fictitious name into the household?

A profound distrust of their fellow-creatures is usually a cardinal
point of belief with young men of such tastes and habits as those
of Jasper; nor did he find it difficult to accredit Sir Sykes with
concealed villainy of some sort, or Miss Willis with not, as in
sporting language he pithily paraphrased it, ‘running square.’ But
he did desire to find a conceivable motive of some kind; and in the
absence of that was driven to speculations too wild to shape themselves
in rational form.

‘If the governor had been touched in the head’—thus ran the son’s
dutiful meditations—‘I could have set down the thing as a rich man’s
crazed caprice; but no! he’s as sound as a bell. And then that fellow
the pirate actually bullying him to get this girl foisted upon us! What
imaginable interest can he have in planting her at Carbery Chase, or
what can be the bond of union between a refined dainty little creature
and a buccaneering vagabond of his stamp? The whole affair is a riddle.’

It might be added that Jasper was not an adept in the solution of such
social puzzles. Turf rascalities of any sort came quite naturally
within the compass of an understanding well fitted to grasp all that
could be done on the offensive or the defensive where a race-horse was
concerned. He knew as much as an outsider could know regarding touts
and horse-watchers, stable strategy and the tactics of the course.
He no more expected straightforward conduct on the part of an owner
than on that of a trainer or of a jockey. He did not except even those
owners, trainers, and jockeys, whose honesty was proverbial on the
English turf. The money to be won was in his eyes motive sufficient for
any moral obtuseness. But the behaviour of Sir Sykes did not square
itself with any of his ethical theories, however tolerant.

When, for the very first time since his accident at the steeplechase,
Captain Denzil made his appearance at the family breakfast-table, he
received the congratulations of his sisters on the marked improvement
in his looks. And it was a fact that he not merely seemed but felt in
better health than before, in spite of the loss of sleep incumbent
on his vigil of the previous night. The activity of his thoughts had
stirred his languid pulses and lent a pleasing vigour to his sluggish
mind, and he even began to find existence at Carbery more endurable
since his fancy had been stimulated by the partial discovery which he
had chanced upon.

‘I should like to have a word with you, Jasper,’ said Sir Sykes. (It
was a very unusual thing for him to say.) ‘You will find me in the
library after breakfast.’

Jasper, who had been stealthily admiring the calm unconcern with which
Miss Willis met his gaze, and the perfect steadiness of that young
lady’s nerves, started, but instantly recovered himself. ‘To be sure,
sir,’ he said, toying with his tea-spoon, while his heart quickened its
beating. The enigma was about to be solved then. He could not doubt
that the communication which his father had to make had reference to
the strange doings of which Carbery Chase had of late been the theatre.

Sir Sykes, in his favourite apartment, was not kept waiting very long.
His only son, in obedience to his father’s invitation, sauntered in
with his customary air of nonchalant indifference, and took his seat
loungingly in an easy-chair opposite to that of Sir Sykes. The baronet
seemed at a loss for words wherewith to begin the announcement he
desired to make.

‘You are nearly yourself again, Jasper, after your heavy fall?’ said
Sir Sykes, by way of a prelude to the conversation.

‘Yes; thanks. My arm is a little troublesome, but otherwise I am
getting on capitally,’ replied Jasper after an instant’s hesitation.
He had hesitated in diplomatic doubt as to whether the part of an
invalid would stand him in better stead than that of a flourishing
convalescent, but contented himself with giving an ambiguous answer.
Had Captain Prodgers or any sporting friend put the query, ‘I feel
fit and well’ would have been the appropriate rejoinder; but with his
parent the ex-Lancer did not care to lose any coigne of vantage-ground.

‘I am glad of it,’ mechanically returned the baronet; and then there
was another pause, more awkward than the last.

‘My boy,’ said Sir Sykes, plunging with an effort into the subject
nearest to his thoughts, ‘you can’t suppose that I like to see you
wasting your young life in indolent inaction, or that I am blind to the
fact that the quiet humdrum ways of Carbery often pall upon you.’

Jasper pricked up his ears. Here was an exordium which promised well,
too well almost. Could it be possible that his father was going to
sign, so to speak, his social ticket-of-leave, and to send him back
where Fashion reigned supreme—to London, Newmarket, Melton? Had the
Fates grown kind; and could he, Jasper Denzil, with a satisfactory bank
balance, once more take his place in the constellation of the gilded
youth of Britain? He opened his lazy eyes a very little wider, and
looked at his father with a renewed interest in the next words that he
should hear.

‘The case,’ went on Sir Sykes, ‘lies in a nutshell. You are
discontented simply because you have nothing to occupy you and no
one to care for. I should like very much, Jasper, to see you happily
married; I should indeed.’

Jasper stared. His roseate visions of a prompt reappearance in
betting-rings and military clubs were fading fast. But this novel
anxiety on the part of Sir Sykes as to his son’s matrimonial future
might be twisted somehow into the foundation of at least a qualified
prosperity. ‘He can’t mean,’ such was Jasper’s inward soliloquy,
‘myself and my wife to be mere pensioners, living indolently here at
Carbery. He must do something for us, he must indeed; unless it is an
heiress he is about to suggest as a desirable daughter-in-law.’—‘I
suppose I must marry, like other people, some of these days,’ said
Jasper, with Pall-Mall philosophy.

‘And there is this advantage in your position,’ returned Sir Sykes, in
a quick flurried manner, ‘that you need not look for fortune in a wife.
The heir-expectant of Carbery can afford to disregard such matters as
dowry and portion.’

A little pink flush rose to the roots of Jasper’s fair hair. He did
not quite enjoy the hearing himself described as heir-expectant, not
feeling sure but that a covert sneer was intended; but it was pleasant
to be told that he was not expected to earn his bread, as he had known
other broken-down men of fashion to do, by wedlock. Perhaps it was
rank, not wealth, on which the governor’s thoughts ran—perhaps Lady
Gladys De Vere. But here Jasper’s meditations were interrupted, and his
thoughts turned into a new channel, when the baronet suddenly said:
‘Has it never occurred to you that Miss Willis, our new inmate here at
Carbery, was a very charming little person, a good girl, and a clever
one, and who would make an excellent wife?’

The explosion of a hand-grenade would not have produced a more
startling effect on Jasper’s nerves than did this wholly unexpected
speech on the part of Sir Sykes. For a moment or two he sat
motionless, with arched eyebrows and parted lips, and then said,
stammeringly: ‘Why, I thought the relationship—no, not that, but I
supposed—obstacle—marriage!’

It was for Sir Sykes then to look astonished. Either he was a
consummate actor, or his son’s last words had been to him utterly
inexplicable.

‘I hardly know,’ said the baronet, in that cold half-haughty tone that
had become habitual to him, ‘to what you allude, or what insuperable
stumbling-block you conceive to stand in your way, should you incline
to do so sensible a thing as to pay your addresses to my ward, Miss
Willis. She has, it is true, no fortune; but that deficiency, as I
have already said, is one which I can easily remedy. In addition to
Carbery Chase, which is quite,’ he added with marked emphasis, ‘at my
own disposal, I have a large amount of personal property, and should
be willing to settle a considerable income on your wife—I say on your
wife, Jasper, because, unhappily, I cannot rely on your prudence where
money is concerned.’

‘I know I’ve made too strong running, know it well enough,’ answered
the ex-cavalry officer, stroking his yellow moustache; ‘and I don’t
deny, sir, that you have treated me very kindly as to money and that.
But really and seriously, sir, _can_ you wish me to marry Miss Willis?’

‘Really, my son, your pertinacity in cross-questioning me on the matter
is—I am sure most unwittingly—almost offensive,’ replied Sir Sykes
nervously. ‘Nor do I see what there would be so very wonderful in
your selection of an amiable and accomplished girl, domiciled in your
father’s house, and the daughter of—poor Willis!’ added the baronet in
conclusion, as though the memory of the deceased major had suddenly
recurred to him with unusual vividness.

Jasper, who remembered the conversation which he had overheard at _The
Traveller’s Rest_, fairly gasped for breath. His parent’s talent for
duplicity seemed to him to be something strange and shocking, as the
untruthfulness of an elder generation always does appear.

‘I should not have urged my views upon you as I have done,’ continued
Sir Sykes after a pause, ‘but that I have some idea that the young
lady who has been the unconscious subject of this conversation
entertains—what shall I say?—a preference for your society, which her
feminine tact enables her to hide from general notice. I feel assured
that it only rests with you to win the heart of Ruth Willis—a prize
worth the winning.’

We are all very vain. Jasper, fop and worldling though he was, felt
a thrill of gratified vanity run through him like an electric shock,
as his father’s artful suggestion sank into the depths of his selfish
mind. But he made haste to put in a disclaimer.

‘I’m afraid, sir, you are too partial a judge,’ he said, with an
involuntary glance at the Venice mirror opposite. ‘Miss Willis is too
sensible to care about a good-for-nothing fellow like me.’

‘I think otherwise, Jasper,’ returned Sir Sykes. ‘However, for the
present we have talked enough. My wishes, remember, and even—even my
welfare, for reasons not just now to be explained, are on the side of
this marriage. Think it over. To you it means easy circumstances, a
home of your own, the reversion of Carbery Chase, my cordial good-will,
and the society of a charming and high-principled wife. Think it over.’

‘I will think it over, sir,’ said Jasper, rising from his chair, and
lounging out of the library with the same listless swagger as that with
which he had lounged into it. ‘I should be glad of course to meet your
wishes, and that. Quite a surprise though.’

Left alone, Sir Sykes buried his face in his hands, and when he raised
it again it looked old, worn, and haggard. ‘That scoundrel Hold,’ he
said with a sigh, ‘makes me pay a heavy price for his silence, and even
now his motives are to me a problem that I cannot solve.’

(_To be continued._)




CURIOUS THEATRE CUSTOMS IN PARIS.


The visitor to Paris may witness a kind of theatrical performance which
is strikingly different from any that can be seen in Great Britain.
We refer to the Théâtre des Menus Plaisirs, in the Boulevard de
Strasbourg. Part of the entertainment here consists in certain of the
actors and actresses criticising the performances which are proceeding
upon the stage, from seats in various parts of the house—pit,
circle, and gallery—which they have quietly got into unobserved by
the audience. They assume the _rôle_ of ordinary spectators who
find themselves compelled in the interests of literature and art to
remonstrate in a rather extraordinary manner against what they see and
hear upon the stage; and the surprise of the uninitiated when the ball
is set rolling is considerable.

The manager comes upon the stage and begins a modest speech upon past
successes and future prospects; but he has not far advanced in his
speech when a gentleman rises in the stalls, with hat in hand, and in
the most respectful manner corrects him with regard to a word which he
declares to be ill chosen and misleading, at the same time obliging
the manager with the correct word. Here another gentleman introduces
himself into the dispute, and complicates matters by a new suggestion,
which involves the subject in inextricable confusion and absurdity.
Both gentlemen are extremely polite, but firm in denying the right of
the manager to that word; and the latter is driven frantic, and retires
from the stage glaring at his antagonists.

Silence for a few seconds succeeds this scene, when suddenly a man
in the front seat of the gallery starts up from his seat with a wild
cry, throws one leg over the gallery, hangs forward suspended from the
railing, and gazes towards the pit entrance of the theatre. He sees
something of absorbing interest, and with another cry he is about to
throw himself over the gallery. The people scream; and then he finds
he has been mistaken; he resumes a normal position, and looking round
upon the audience with a kindly smile, which strangely contrasts with
his late look of anxiety, he asks pardon for unnecessarily disturbing
their composure, and resumes his seat. A tenor singer now comes upon
the stage and commences a song; but the two critics in the stalls are
particular, and take exception to his style; they do so with manifest
regret, but the principles of art must be attended to. With profuse
apologies, and an expressed hope that he will proceed with his song
in the corrected form, the critics resume their seats. The tenor, at
first exasperated, becomes mollified by the courteous manners of the
gentlemen, and begins his song again; but almost immediately a lady
sitting in the front seat of the circle tells him that he is in danger
of dropping his moustache. This last is the final ‘straw’ on the back
of the vocalist, and he retires in high dudgeon.

By the side of the lady in the circle there sits a meek-looking old
gentleman, who being naturally shocked at the conduct of his wife,
puts on his hat as if to leave the theatre; but the better-half is
equal to the occasion, and knocks his hat over the meek old gentleman’s
eyes, and the meek old gentleman himself back into his seat. Presently
several actresses appear upon the stage, and one of them commences
to sing, with probably a pleasing sympathetic voice; but such is not
the opinion of the lady, who holds the singer up to ridicule. The
vocalist then stops, and engages in a verbal and violent encounter
with her persecutor, who from her place in the ‘circle’ returns the
badinage with interest, so that soon the other retires from the stage
vanquished. The victor is now asked herself to sing, a request with
which she readily complies, singing with abundant action and in good
voice an exceedingly catching song, and at the chorus, giving a royal
wave of the hands towards the gallery to join with her at that point.

The stranger will be surprised to learn that this disturbing element
in the audience, in reality comes from behind the scenes; the lady who
has just sung is the leading member of the company, and the gentlemen
critics are well-known and highly appreciated comedians. And though
the stranger may think that all this is an impromptu disturbance, it
is quite certain that all is rehearsed as carefully as any play that
is put upon the stage. How long such a performance would secure the
favour of a London audience, is doubtful; here, however, it is an
abiding success, is received with immense applause—the _claqueurs_ or
professional applauders being apparently altogether dispensed with—and
the audience is kept in continual hilarity by the humorous attack and
by the instant and witty reply.

Within the Parisian theatres the visitor may derive some amusement from
observing the operations of the _claqueurs_, who are employed at the
principal establishments to augment the enthusiasm of the audience.
The men who compose this body of professional applauders appear to
belong to the artisan class; they number from forty to fifty, that is
they are about a hundred hands all told. They occupy the front row of
seats in the second or third gallery, so that to observe them and their
movements it is necessary to occupy a place in one of the galleries.
Their leader sits in their midst, ever ready at the points marked for
him by author or manager to give the signal which ‘brings down the
house.’ As the moment arrives when _the_ bon-mot shall be uttered, the
_chef_ breathes upon his hands, then stretches them slightly upwards,
while he at the same time looks right and left along his ranks. This
is equivalent to ‘Attention’ or ‘Prepare to fire a volley.’ Each man
is now at the ‘ready,’ and waits anxiously upon the _chef_. When the
_mot_ is uttered, he brings his hands together with a frantic wave,
and the others simultaneously with him make a very respectable, even
enthusiastic show of applause. At the end of a song the leader starts
the cry _Ploo, ploo_ (plus, signifying more), in which all join; this,
which is equivalent to our ‘Encore,’ sounds in the stranger’s ears more
like hooting than aught else; but it is no doubt as welcome to the
French actor as a good British cheer is to an English one.

This little army, like all others, has its awkward squad. One evening
at the ‘Renaissance’ we observed the _chef_ to become very uneasy on
account of one who was exceedingly remiss in his duty; not only was the
amount of applause when given small in volume, but once when the signal
was given he entirely neglected to comply with it. This was gall and
wormwood to the leader, who really seemed a very earnest hard-working
man in his profession; so after finishing the round of applause, he
‘went for’ that awkward man, remonstrated with him, and even gave him
on the spur of the moment, a lesson on the correct method of clapping
hands. After this the pupil shewed marked improvement, and by the
end of the play performed his duty in such a satisfactory manner as
promised well for his future advancement in this handy profession. The
effect of this pernicious system upon the audience is very different,
we should think, from what was anticipated when it was first organised;
for finding that the applause is supplied by the establishment, just as
it supplies programmes or turns on the gas, the audience feel that they
are relieved from all obligations in the matter, and unless stirred by
an irresistible influence, seldom dream of applauding at all.




THE RIVAL LAIRDS.


In a recent article on Curling we endeavoured to give a sketch of the
history of this popular Scottish pastime, together with a brief outline
of the mode in which the game is usually played. The following story
of a match between two rival parishes, supposed to have been played
about the beginning of the present century, may give the reader a
further idea of the enthusiasm evoked on the ice whenever and wherever
curlers forgather. Let the non-initiated imagine himself standing
beside a frozen sheet of water, upon which are assembled a company of
men of various ranks from peer to peasant, each striving to do his
best to support the prowess and honour of his rink. The rink let it be
understood is a certain portion of ice, from thirty to forty yards in
length, apportioned off to the players. The players consist usually of
four on each side, and whereas in the well-known game of grass-bowls,
each player is provided with two wooden bowls which he drives towards
a small white ball called the Jack, each player on the ice has two
curling-stones shaped much like a Gouda cheese—with a handle atop—which
he propels or hurls towards a certain marked spot at each end of the
rink, called the tee; and round each tee is scratched a series of
concentric rings ranging from two to ten or twelve feet in diameter.
Standing at one end of the rink the man whose turn it is to play, waits
the bidding of his director or ‘skip’ who stands at the other end, and
then endeavours to act according to the directions that may be given by
that important personage. Each of the four players on one side plays
alternately against his antagonist, the main object being to send the
stone gliding up the ice so that it may eventually lie within the rings
and as near the tee as possible. Thus, when the ‘end’ is finished, the
side whose stones lie nearest the tee scores so many towards the game.

Sometimes when the ice is partially thawed the players have difficulty
in hurling their stones all the way to the tee; and sometimes they fail
to get them beyond a transverse mark called the ‘hog-score,’ two-thirds
down the rink—in which case the lagging stone is put off the ice and
cannot count for that ‘end.’ Besoms, however, with which each man is
armed, are here of great account, the laws of the game permitting each
player to sweep the ice in front of an approaching stone belonging to
his side, so as to accelerate its progress, if necessary. The shouts of
‘Sweep, sweep!’ or rather ‘_Soop, soop!_’ are of continual recurrence,
and are exceedingly amusing to strangers. The skip on each side first
directs his three men and then lastly plays himself. On his generalship
in skipping much depends, his efforts being mainly directed first to
get as many stones as possible near the tee, and then to get his men to
‘guard’ them from being driven off by those of the opposite side. Or
he may direct a player to aim at a certain stone already lying, with a
view to take an angle, or ‘wick’ as it is termed, and so land his own
stone near the tee. This wicking is a very pretty part of the game and
requires great delicacy of play.

The anxiety of the opposing skips is very amusing to watch, and the
enthusiasm of the several players when an unusually good shot is made,
is boundless. A good ‘lead’ or first player, though he is necessarily
debarred from the niceties of the game which fall to the lot of the
subsequent players, is a very important man in the game if he can
place his stones within the circles that surround the tee, or in
familiar parlance, ‘lie within the house.’ Second player’s post is
not so important; but ‘third stone’ is a position given usually to
an experienced player, as he has frequently to either drive off some
dangerous stone belonging to the other side, and himself take its
place; or has to guard a stone of his own side, which though in a good
position may lie open to the enemy. Thus proceeds with varying fortune
this ‘roaring game’ of give and take, stone after stone being driven
along the icy plain, till the skips themselves come to play and so
finish the ‘end.’

With these preliminary remarks we proceed to our tale.

       *       *       *       *       *

Snow had fallen long and silently over all the high-lying districts
of the south of Scotland. It was an unusually bad year for the
sheep-farmers, whose stock was suffering severely from the protracted
storm and the snow which enveloped both hill and low-lying pasturage.
But while sheep-farmers were thus kept anxiously waiting for fresh
weather, curlers were in their glory, as day after day they forgathered
on the ice and followed up the ‘roaring game.’

The century was young, and the particular year of our story was that
known and spoken of for long afterwards as the ‘bad year.’ In these
days, there was no free-trade to keep down the price of corn or beef,
which during years of bad harvest in Great Britain, or long periods of
frost and snow, rose to famine prices, and were all but unprocurable by
the poorer classes. Oatmeal at half-a-crown a peck told a sad tale in
many a household, and especially on the helpless children—the bairns.

As we have said, curling had been enjoyed to the full; perhaps there
had even been a surfeit of it, if the real truth were told. Match
after match had been played by parish against parish, and county
against county. Rival rinks of choice players belonging to counties
such as Peebles had challenged those of the neighbouring counties of
Selkirkshire, or even Midlothian. Prizes, consisting of medals or
money, had been gained by various enthusiasts; and last though not
least, matches for suppers of beef and greens—the true curlers’ fare,
had been contested, the reckoning to be paid by the losing rinks. The
benedicts too had played the bachelors, and had as usual, beaten them.

Country squires had given prizes to be played for by their tenantry
versus adjoining tenantry, and had brought their fur-clad wives and
daughters to the ice to congratulate them on success, or condole with
them on defeat. In short, the sole occupation of the majority of the
adult male rural population of the south of Scotland in the year of
which we speak, seemed to be—curling.

Amongst other matches in the county of Peeblesshire there was one that
yet remained to come off, namely between the parishes of Tweedsmuir
and Broughton. In a series of matches—or bonspiels as they were
termed—between parish and parish, these two had stood unbeaten. It
therefore remained to be seen which parish should beat the other, and
thereby achieve the envied position of champion of the county.

When the honour of a _parish_ is at stake on the ice, the choice
of the men who are to play, is a matter of very grave import. In
a friendly match between two rinks, a little unskilfulness on the
part of one or more of the players is a very common affair and is
comparatively unheeded: but in a bonspiel between the two best parishes
in a celebrated curling county, the failure or even the occasional
uncertainty of any one man may be fraught with direst consequences.

Foremost among the promoters of the forthcoming match which was to
decide matters, were Robert Scott laird of Tweedsmuir, and Andrew
Murray laird of Broughton. These worthies had long been rivals on
other than ice-fields, and though on friendly enough terms at kirk
or market were each keenly alive to his own honour and prowess. Any
game, therefore, in which these rival lairds engaged, was sure to be
closely contested; and the result was at all times as eagerly watched
by interested spectators as it was keenly fought by the rival parties.
It is even said that the lairds had been rivals in love as well as in
other sports, the result of which was that Murray had carried off the
lady and Scott had remained a bachelor, with an old housekeeper named
Betty to take charge of him. But as the story of the love-match was but
the ‘clash’ of the country, it may be taken for what it is worth.

On the morning of the day fixed for the match (which was to come off
at Broughton and to consist of four men on each side), the laird of
Tweedsmuir was early astir, in order to see that the cart which was
to convey his own curling-stones and those of his men to Broughton—a
distance of some half-dozen miles—was ready, and that the men
themselves were prepared to accompany it. The cart having been duly
despatched with the schoolmaster of the parish, who was to be one of
the players, and the shepherd from Talla Linns, who was to be another,
Laird Scott ordered out his gig and himself prepared to start.

‘Now Betty,’ cried the laird to his old housekeeper, as he proceeded to
envelop himself in his plaid, ‘you’ll see and have plenty of beef and
greens ready by six o’clock, and a spare bed or two; for besides our
own men it’s likely enough I may bring back one or two of the beaten
lads to stop all night.’

‘’Deed laird, tak ye care the Broughton folk dinna get the better o’
_you_, and beat ye after a’: they tell me they’re grand curlers.’

‘Well Betty, I’m not afraid of them, with Andrew Denholm on my side.’

Thus assured, the stalwart laird seized the reins and took the road
for Broughton. On his way down the valley of the Tweed he called at
the humble cottage of the said Andrew Denholm, who usually played the
critical part of ‘third stone,’ and was one of his best supporters; and
whose employment, that of a mason, was for the nonce at a stand-still.

‘What! not ready yet Andrew?’ exclaimed the laird in a tone of
disappointment. ‘Bestir yourself man, or we’ll not be on the ice by ten
o’clock.’

‘I’m no’ gaun’ to the curlin’ the day sir,’ replied Andrew with an air
of dejection.

‘And what for no’?’ inquired the laird with uneasy apprehension. ‘You
know Andrew, my man, the game canna’ go on without you. The honour of
Tweedsmuir at stake too! there’s not another man I would risk in your
place on the ice this day.’

‘Get Wattie Laidlaw the weaver to tak’ my place laird; he’s a grand
curler, and can play up a stane as well as ony man in the parish; the
fact is sir, just now I have na’ the heart even to curl. Gang yer ways
yersell laird, and skip against the laird o’ Broughton, and there’s nae
fear o’ the result: and Wattie can play third stane instead o’ me.’

‘Wattie will play _nae_ third stane for me: come yourself Andrew, and
we’ll try to cheer you up; and you’ll take your beef and greens up bye
wi’ the rink callants and me in the afternoon.’

Denholm was considered one of the best curlers in that part of the
county, and was usually one of the first to be on the ice; to see
him, therefore, thus cast down and listless, filled the laird’s warm
heart with sorrow. He saw there was something wrong. He must rally the
dejected mason.

‘Do you think,’ continued the laird, ‘that I would trust Wattie to play
in your place; a poor silly body that can barely get to the hog-score,
let alone the tee? Na, na Andrew; rather let the match be off than be
beaten in that way.’

Seeing the laird thus determined to carry off his ‘third man’ to the
scene of the approaching conflict, the poor mason endeavoured still
further to remonstrate by a recital of his grievances.

‘Ye ken sir,’ he began, ‘what a long storm it has been. Six weeks since
I’ve had a day at my trade, though I have made a shilling or two now
and again up-bye at the homestead yonder. But wi’ the price o’ meal at
half-a-crown the peck, and no’ very good after a’; and nineteenpence
for a loaf of bread, we’ve had a sair time of it. But we wadna’ vex
oorsels about that, Maggie and me, if we had meal eneugh to keep the
bairns fed. Five o’ them dwining away before our eyes; it’s been an
unco job I assure you, laird. Indeed if it hadna been for Mag’s sister
that’s married upon the grieve o’ Drummelzier, dear knows what would
have become of us, wi’ whiles no a handfu’ o’ meal left in the girnel.
Even wi’ the siller to pay for it, it’s no’ aye to be gotten; and,’
faltered the poor fellow in conclusion, ‘there’s just meal eneugh in
the house to-day to last till the morn.’

‘Well, cheer up my man!’ cried the laird; ‘the longest day has an
end, and this storm cannot last much longer. In fact there’s a thaw
coming on or I’m far cheated. There’s a crown to Maggie to replenish
the meal-ark, and get maybe a sup o’ something better for the bairns.
And there’s cheese an’ bread in the gig here that will serve you and
me Andrew, till the beef and greens are ready for us up-bye in the
afternoon. Meanwhile, a tastin’ o’ the flask will no be amiss, and then
for Broughton.’

Thus invigorated and reassured, the mason took his seat beside the
laird, and amid blessings from the gudewife and well-wishings from the
bairns, the two sped on their journey.

Arrived at the pond, they found tees marked, distances measured, and
all in readiness for the play to begin. The usual salutations ensued.
Broughton and Tweedsmuir shook hands all round with much apparent
warmth; and the two sides, of four each, took their places in the
following order:

       BROUGHTON.                           TWEEDSMUIR.

Wil. Elliot, shoemaker, lead;        Mr Henderson, schoolmaster, lead;
Rev. Isaac Stevenson, 2d stone;      Wattie Dalgleish, shepherd, 2d stone;
Tam Johnston, blacksmith, 3d stone;  Andrew Denholm, mason, 3d stone;
Laird Murray, skip.                  Laird Scott, skip.

The play was begun and continued with varying fortune: sometimes
one side scored, sometimes the other. The match was to consist of
thirty-one points; and at one o’clock when a halt was called for
refreshments, the scoring was tolerably even. The frost was beginning
to shew a slight tendency to give way, but this only nerved the players
to further exertions in sweeping up the stones on the somewhat dulled
ice. The scene in the forenoon had been a very lively one: but as the
afternoon approached and the game was nearing an end, the liveliness
was tempered with anxiety, which amounted almost to pain, as shot
after shot was ‘put in’ by one side, only to be cleverly ‘taken’ by
the other. ‘Soop! soop!’ was the incessant cry of the skips as from
their point of vantage they descried a lagging stone; or ‘Haud up!
I tell ye; haud up!’ when from that same point they beheld one of
their players’ stones approaching with sufficient velocity to do all
that was wanted. Anxiety was nearing a crisis. At half-past three the
game stood: Broughton thirty, Tweedsmuir twenty-nine. The game was
anybody’s. Coats had been cast as needless encumbrances; besoms were
clutched with determined firmness: the skips slightly pale with the
terrible excitement of the occasion, and the stake that was as it were
hanging in the balance: want of nerve on their part to direct, or on
the part of any one man to play, might decide the fate of the day. The
last end had come to be played, and Broughton having won the previous
end, was to lead. The shoemaker’s stone is played, and lies well over
the hog-score in good line with the tee, and on the road to promotion.
Tweedsmuir’s leading man, the schoolmaster, passes the souter’s stone
and lies in ‘the house.’ ‘Well played dominie!’ cries Laird Scott to
his lead. And so proceeds the ‘end’ till it comes to our friend the
mason’s turn to play; the blacksmith having just played his first stone
with but indifferent effect.

‘What do ye see o’ that stane Andrew?’ roars Laird Scott from the tee,
pointing at the same time to the winning stone of the other side,
which, however, was partially ‘guarded.’

‘I see the half o’ t.’

‘Then,’ says the laird, ‘make sure of it: tak it awa’, and if you rub
off the guard there’s no harm done.’

For a moment the mason steadies himself, settles his foot in the
crampet, and with a straight delivered shot shaves the guard and wicks
out the rival stone, himself lying in close to the tee, and _guarded_
both at the side and in front by stones belonging to his side.

The effect of such a shot as this, at so critical a period of the game,
was electric, and is not easily to be described. Enthusiasm on the part
of Tweedsmuir, dismay on that of Broughton. But there are yet several
stones to come: the order may again be reversed, and Andrew’s deftly
played shot may be yet taken. We shall see. The blacksmith, the third
player on the Broughton side, follows with his second stone, and though
by adhering to the direction of his skip he might have knocked off the
guard and so laid open Andrew’s winner, over-anxiety causes him to
miss the guard and miss everything. Thus is his second and last stone
unfortunately played for Broughton.

The mason has his second stone still to play for Tweedsmuir, and
before doing so Laird Scott thus accosts him: ‘Andrew my man, we are
lying shot now; we want but another to be game; and for the honour o’
Tweedsmuir I am going to give you the shot that will give it to us: do
ye see this port?’ pointing to an open part of the ice (in curling
phraseology a port) to the left of the tee, with a stone on each side.

‘I see the port sir.’

‘Well then,’ continued the laird, ‘I want you to fill that port; lay a
stone there Andrew, and there’s _a lade o’ meal at your door to-morrow
morning_.’

The stone is raised just for one instant with an easy backward sweep
of hand and arm, and delivered with a twist that curls it on and on by
degrees towards the spot required. Not just with sufficient strength
perhaps, but aligned to the point. In an instant the skip is master of
the situation. ‘Soop lads! O soop! soop her up—s-o-o-o-p—there now;
let her lie!’ as the stone curls into the ‘port,’ and lies a provoking
impediment to the opposite players. The pressure on players of both
sides is now too great to admit of many outward demonstrations. Stern
rigour of muscle stiffens every face as the two skips themselves now
leave the tee and take their places at the other end. The silence bodes
a something that no one cares to explain away, so great is the strain
of half-hope half-fear that animates every breast.

Laird Murray is directed by his adviser at the tee (the blacksmith) to
break-off the guard in front, but misses. Scott his antagonist, by a
skilfully played stone, puts on another guard still, in order to avoid
danger from Laird Murray’s second and last stone. One chance only now
apparently remains for the laird of Broughton, who requires but one
shot to reverse the order of things and retrieve the game, and he tries
it. It is one of those very difficult shots known amongst curlers as
an outwick. A stone of his side has lain considerably to the right
of the tee short of it, which if touched on the outer side might be
driven in towards the centre and perhaps lie shot. The inwick would be
easier, but that the stone is unfortunately guarded for that attempt.
He knows that Denholm’s first stone still lies the shot, and is guarded
both in front and at the side; and that with another, Tweedsmuir will
be thirty-one and game. The shot is risked—after other contingencies
have been duly weighed—but without the desired effect: the outlying
stone is certainly touched, which in itself was a good shot, but is not
sufficiently taken on the side to produce the desired effect. The laird
of Broughton pales visibly as the shot is missed, and mutters something
between his clenched teeth anything but complimentary to things in
general.

The last stone now lies by the foot of our Tweedsmuir laird, who calmly
awaits the word of direction from Andrew at the other end.

‘Laird!’ shouts the anxious mason, ‘there’s but the one thing for it,
and I’ve seen ye play a dafter-like shot. What would ye say to try an
inwick aff my last stane and lift this ane a foot?’ pointing to a stone
of his side which lay near, though still not counting; ‘that would give
us another shot, and the game!’

‘Well Andrew, that’s why I asked you to fill the port, for I saw what
_they_ didna see, that a wick and curl-in would be left: I think it may
be done. At any rate I can but try.’

Silence reigns o’er the rink: the sweepers on each side stand in
breathless suspense: the wick taken, as given by Andrew in advice to
the Laird, may proclaim Broughton beaten and Tweedsmuir the champion
parish of the county!

‘Stand back from behind, and shew me the stone with your besom, Andrew;
there.’

The suspense is soon broken, the last stone has sped on its mission,
the wick has been taken, a stone on Laird Scott’s side that was lying
farther from the tee than one of the opponents’, is ‘lifted’ into
second place, which with the mason’s winner makes exactly the magic
score of thirty-one! Like the thaw which after this long-continued
storm will be welcomed by man and beast alike, so does the thaw
now melt the frozen tongues of the players. Hats fly up in frenzy
of delight, and the phenomenon is witnessed (only to be witnessed
on ice) of a Scottish laird and his humble tenant in ecstatic
embrace. Flasks are produced, hands shaken by rivals as well as by
friends—though chiefly by friends: preparations are made to carry home
the paraphernalia of the roaring game: and while Betty congratulates
the laird and his guests on their victory, there is happiness in store
for Andrew Denholm, whose prowess so notably contributed to secure the
honour of Tweedsmuir.




AN IRISH COUNTRY FUNERAL.


The difference between English and Irish as regards the funeral customs
of the peasantry in both countries is great. To have a large assemblage
at the ‘berrin’ is among the latter an object of ambition and pride to
the family; and the concourse of neighbours, friends, and acquaintances
who flock from all parts to the funeral is often immense. Even
strangers will swell the funeral cortège, and will account for doing so
by saying: ‘Sure, won’t it come to our turn some day, and isn’t a big
following—to do us credit at our latter end—what we’d all like? So why
shouldn’t we do what is dacent and neighbourly by one another?’

What a contrast there is between a quiet interment in an English
country parish, attended only by the household of the departed, and the
well-remembered scenes in the churchyard of Kilkeedy, County Limerick!

Here, in days gone by, a funeral was a picturesque and touching sight.
There was something very weird and solemn in the sound of the ‘keen,’
as it came, mournful and wild upon the ear, rising and falling with
the windings of the road along which the vast procession moved. In the
centre was the coffin, borne on the shoulders of relatives or friends,
and followed by the next of kin. Outside the churchyard gate, where was
a large open space, there was a halt. The coffin was laid reverently on
the ground, the immediate relatives of the dead kneeling round it.

And now on bended knees all in that vast assemblage sink down. Every
head is bowed in prayer—the men devoutly uncovered—every lip moves;
the wail of the keeners is hushed; you could hear a pin drop among
the silent crowds. It is a solemn and impressive pause. After a few
minutes the bearers again take up their burden and carry it into the
churchyard, when after being three times borne round the church, it is
committed to its final resting-place.

Years have passed since these scenes were witnessed by the writer of
these pages. The old familiar church has been pulled down (a new
one built on a neighbouring site), and nought of it remains but the
ivy-clad tower and graceful spire left standing—that ‘ivy-mantled
tower,’ where the sparrow had found her a house and the swallow a
nest; whose green depths in the still eventide were made vocal by the
chirpings and chatterings of its feathered inhabitants—the sparrows
fluttering fussily in and out, and after the manner of their kind,
closing the day in noisy gossip before subsiding into rest and silence.
Here too were to be found owls, curiously light—soft masses of feathers
with apparently no bodies to speak of, who captured by the workmen
while clipping the ivy, were brought up, all dazed-looking and sleepy,
to be admired and wondered at by the rectory children, and finally
restored tenderly to their ‘secret bower!’

A funeral scene similar to that just described forms the subject of
one of the illustrations in Lady Chatterton’s _Rambles in the South of
Ireland_, sketched by herself. She had stopped to make a drawing of the
beautiful ruins of Quin Abbey in the County Clare, when the wail of an
approaching funeral came floating on the breeze, and the melancholy
cadence was soon followed by the appearance of the usual concourse of
country people. Their figures scattered about in groups, and the coffin
in the foreground, enter with very picturesque effect into the sketch.

When the funeral is over, those who have attended it disperse through
the churchyard; and any having friends buried there betake themselves
to their graves to pray and weep over them. The wild bursts of grief
and vehement sobbing, even over moss-grown graves whose time-stained
headstones bear witness to the length of time their occupants have
slept beneath, would surprise those who are unfamiliar with the
impulsive and demonstrative Irish nature.

An old man sitting beside a grave was rocking himself to and fro, and
wiping his eyes with a blue cotton handkerchief, while, rosary in hand,
he prayed with extraordinary fervour.

‘It’s my poor old wife is lying here,’ he said; ‘the heavens be her
bed! God rest her soul this day! Many’s the long year since she wint
from me, poor Norry, and left me sore and lonesome! She was well on
in years then, though the childer were young; for we were married a
long time before there was any. The neighbours were all at me to marry
again, if it was only for one to wash the shirt or knit the stocking
for me, or to keep the weenochs from running wild about the roads while
I was away at my work earning their bit. But I couldn’t give in to the
notion. I was used to my poor Norry, and the thoughts of a stranger
on the floor was bitter to my heart. Ah, it’s a sore loss to a man in
years when his old wife is took from him! The old comrade he’s had so
long; that understands every turn of him, and knows his humours and
his fancies; and fits him as easy and comfortable as an old shoe. A
man might get a new one—and maybe more sightly to look at than the one
that’s gone—but dear knows, ’twould be at his peril! As likely as not,
she’d fret him and heart-scald him, and make him oneasy day and night,
just blistering like new leather! The old wife is like the shoe he’s
used to, that will lie into his foot. Stretching here and giving there,
and coming, by constant wearing, to fit, as easy and souple as the
skin itself, into th’ exactness of every bump and contrairy spot! For
there’s none of us,’ continued the old man, who seemed to be a bit of
a moralist, ‘that hasn’t our tendher places and our corns and oddities
in body and mind, God help us! Some more and some less, according. And
there’s no one can know where them raw spots lie, or how to save ’em
from being hurt, like the loving crathur that’s been next us through
the long years, in rain and shine. So yer honours,’ he added, getting
up with a last sorrowful look at his wife’s grave, ‘I wouldn’t hearken
to the neighbours, and take a strange comrade. And after a while a
widow sister o’ mine came to live with me and to care my poor orphans;
but my heart is still with my poor Norry here in the clay!’

There was another loving couple in the same neighbourhood, whose
apparently impending separation by death caused much sympathy among
their friends. The man was a farmer, and owing to his industry and good
conduct, he and his young wife were in comfortable circumstances and
well to do. They were devoted to each other. When he was attacked with
the severe illness that threatened his life, she nursed him night and
day until she was wasted to a shadow, and looked from anxiety and want
of sleep almost as corpse-like as he did. Her misery when the doctors
pronounced the case hopeless was dreadful to witness. The poor fellow’s
strength was, they said, nearly exhausted, his illness had lasted so
long; so that his holding out was considered impossible.

Things were in this state, and the sufferer’s death daily expected,
when we were called away from the place, to pay a distant visit. On our
return home after some weeks’ absence, one of the first persons we saw
was young Mrs D—— dressed in the deepest widow’s weeds—a moving mass of
crape.

It was on a Sunday morning going to church; she was walking along the
road before us, stepping out with wonderful briskness, we thought,
considering her very recent bereavement. We had to quicken our pace to
come up with her, and said when we did so: ‘We are so sorry for you, so
very sorry! You have lost your husband.’

‘Thank you kindly; you were always good,’ she said, lifting up her
heavy crape veil from off a face radiant with smiles. ‘He isn’t dead
at all, glory be to God! an’ ’tis recovering beautiful he is. The
doctor says if he goes on gettin’ up his strength as he’s doing the
last fortnight, he’ll soon be finely; out and about in no time.—Oh, the
clothes, is it? Sure ’twas himself, the dear man, bought them for me!
When he was that bad there wasn’t a spark of hope, he calls me over to
him, an’ “Katie my heart,” sez he, “I’m going from you. The doctors
have gave me up, and you’ll be a lone widow before long, my poor child.
And when I’m gone, jewel, and you’re left without a head or provider,
there’ll be no one in the wide world to give you a stitch of clothes
or anything conformable. So I’ll order them home now, darlin’, the
best that can be got for money; for I’d like to leave you dacent and
respectable behind me.” And your honours,’ she went on, ‘so he did.
Two golden guineas he gev for the bonnet; and as for the gownd, ladies
dear, only feel the stuff that’s in it, and ye may guess what _that_
cost. And beautiful crape, no end of a price!—every whole thing the
hoight of good quality—top lot of the shop, and no stint.—Well,’ she
continued, ‘there they all were in the chest. And sure when himself
got well we thought it a sin and a shame to let lovely clothes like
these lie by without wearing ’em—to be ruined entirely and feed the
moths—after they costing such a sight of money too. So he made me put
them on; and a proud man himself was this morning, and a happy, seeing
me go out the door so grand and iligant—the best of everything upon me!’

There was something absurd, almost grotesque, in the self-conscious
complacent way in which the young woman gazed admiringly down on her
lugubrious finery; tripping off exulting and triumphant, her manner in
curious contrast with the sore woe associated with those garments—the
saddest in which mortal can be clad.




MR ASLATT’S WARD.


IN FOUR CHAPTERS.—CHAPTER IV.

I will pass over the misery of the days that followed; days stretched
by anxiety and suspense to double their ordinary length. The woman
succeeded only too well in proving the truth of her story; and knowing
how useless it would be, Mr Hammond did not attempt to deny that she
was his wife. Nor did he endeavour to justify his conduct, which was
truly inexcusable. Yet in after-years, when our indignation had cooled,
and we were able calmly to reflect upon the history thus revealed, we
could not help pitying the unfortunate young man. He had not been much
past twenty when, on a visit to Wiesbaden, he had made the acquaintance
of a woman several years older than himself, whose brilliant beauty
and fascinating address had fairly bewitched him. She was a gay
adventuress, who, living by the chances of the gaming-table, and tired
of such a precarious livelihood, had fostered the young man’s passion,
and then condescended to marry him.

Alas! Frederick Hammond had not been long married before he bitterly
regretted the step he had taken. His wife proved the bane of his
life. She had contracted the habit of drinking to excess, and her
intemperance destroyed all hope of happiness in domestic life. Her
husband’s love changed to hatred, and unable to control her vicious
propensities, he deserted her. In one place after another he took
refuge, hoping to elude her search; but again and again she succeeded
in tracking him to his place of concealment, though she was willing
to leave him to himself when he had satisfied her demand for money.
But at last for a long time he heard nothing of her; and as the months
passed into years, the hope sprang up within him that his wife was
either dead, or else had lost all clue to his whereabouts. Weary of
residing abroad, he returned to England, and finding it difficult
to obtain other employment, was glad to accept the post of village
schoolmaster, for he thought the little country village might prove a
secure hiding-place. And here becoming acquainted with Miss Sinclair,
he basely yielded to the temptation to act as though the hope he
cherished that his wife was dead were already a realised fact. He dared
not openly ask Rose’s hand of her guardian; but he sought by all the
means in his power to win her love, and did not rest till he had won
from her a response to his avowed affection, and gained her consent to
a secret engagement. It was a cruel selfish proceeding, for which his
past misfortunes offered no excuse; and thankful indeed were we that
his scheme of eloping with Rose had been frustrated.

But poor Rose! Bitter indeed was her distress when she found we had
no comfort to give her. The shock was too great for her physical
strength, and ere many hours had elapsed it was evident that a severe
illness would be the consequence. For days she lay tossing in feverish
delirium; whilst we kept anxious watch by her bedside, much fearing
what the issue might be. But our fears were mercifully disappointed;
the fever turned, and soon the much-loved patient was pronounced out of
danger. But the improvement was very gradual, and after a while almost
imperceptible. Extreme exhaustion was accompanied in Rose’s case by an
apathetic indifference to everything around her, which formed the chief
barrier to her recovery. She felt no desire to get strong again, now
that life had no longer any great attraction for her.

‘If we could only rouse her to take an interest in anything, she would
soon be well,’ the doctor said to me one day.

A possibility of doing so occurred to me at that moment, and I resolved
to try, though I could scarcely hope to succeed. In the evening, when I
was sitting by Rose’s couch, and knew that Mr Aslatt had gone out, and
would not be back for an hour or two, I said to her gently: ‘I think
you feel a little stronger to-day; do you not, darling?’

A heavy sigh was the only response to my question.

I knelt by her side, and gently drew her head upon my shoulder as I
whispered: ‘I wish you could unburden your heart to me, dear Rose.
Would it not be a relief to tell me the sad thoughts that occupy your
mind?’

No answer but by tears, which I was glad to see, for I knew they would
relieve her heavy heart. After a while, words followed. She told me how
little she cared to get well again; what a dreary blank life appeared
to her, now that he whom she had so loved and trusted had proved
unworthy; how it seemed to her she was of no use in the world, and the
sooner she were out of it the better for herself and every one else.
And a great deal more in the same strain.

I reminded her of her guardian’s love for her, and his great anxiety
for her recovery, and urged her to try to get well for his sake. But
she only shook her head despondingly. ‘I have never been anything but a
trouble to him,’ she said; ‘he would be happier without me. If I were
out of the way, I daresay he would marry. I used to make plans for his
future as well as for my own, you know; but now everything will be
different.’

‘I do not think Mr Aslatt would have married,’ I ventured to say.

‘Why not?’ asked Rose.

I was silent, and she did not repeat the question.

‘I have a story to tell you, Rose, which I think you may like to hear,’
I said presently.

‘A story!’ she said in surprise.

‘Yes, darling, a story.’

‘Many years ago, a gentleman was passing through the streets of Vienna.
He was a man about thirty years of age, but he looked older, for he
had known sorrow and disappointment, and life appeared to him then
nought but vanity and vexation of spirit. Yet many would have envied
his position, for he possessed much of what the world most values.
He was walking listlessly along, when his attention was attracted by
a group of musicians, who were performing at the corner of a square.
In the centre of the band stood a pretty little fair-haired girl
about six years old. She was poorly clad. Her tiny feet were bare,
and bleeding from contact with the sharp stones with which the roads
were strewn; and tears were in her large blue eyes as, in her childish
voice, she joined in the song. Her pretty yet sorrowful face and the
plaintive tone in which she sang touched the stranger’s kind heart.
He stood still to watch the group, and when the song was ended went
forward to place some money in the child’s upturned palm. “Is this
your little girl?” he asked the man by whose side she was standing. He
replied in the negative. The little girl was an orphan, the child of
an Englishman, who had formerly belonged to the band, but who had died
some months before, leaving his little daughter entirely dependent on
the good-will of his late comrades.

‘Well, darling, you must know that they did not object to keeping
her with them, as her appearance was calculated to call forth pity,
and thus increase their earnings. But it was a rough life for the
child, and she suffered from the exposure to all weathers which it
entailed. Her father, who it was believed had seen better days, had
never allowed her to go out with the troop, and had done his utmost
to shield her from hardships. But now there was no help for it; she
could not be kept in idleness. Moved with pity for the child’s hapless
lot, the gentleman inquired where the musicians resided, and returned
to his hotel to consider how he might best serve the little orphan.
After much reflection his resolution was taken. He was a lonely man,
with no near relative to claim his love. His heart yearned with pity
for the desolate child, whose pleading blue eyes and plaintive voice
kept appealing to his compassion, to the exclusion of all other
considerations. He determined to adopt her, and provide for her for the
rest of her life. With this intention he sought the street musicians on
the following day, and easily induced them to commit the child to his
care. After handsomely rewarding the musicians, he took her away with
him that very day, and ever since she has had the first place in his
heart. His loving care for the orphan child brought its own reward, for
in striving to promote the happiness of little Rose he found his own.’

I was interrupted by a cry from my companion. ‘Rose!’ she exclaimed
excitedly. ‘What are you saying, Miss Bygrave? Tell me—was I—am _I_
that little child?’

‘You are, darling; and now you know how truly you are the light of Mr
Aslatt’s life. He has no one to care for but you, and you alone can
make him happy.’

‘And I have really no claim upon him, am in no way related to him, as
I thought! I knew I owed him much, but I had no idea to what extent I
was indebted to him. But for his goodness, what should I be now? Oh, if
I had only known this before! How ungrateful I have been to him, how
wayward and perverse! Oh, Miss Bygrave, I cannot bear to think of it!’

‘Do not trouble about that, dear,’ I said, trying to soothe her, for
her agitation alarmed me; ‘it is all forgiven and forgotten by Mr
Aslatt.’

‘But I shall never forgive myself,’ she exclaimed passionately. ‘To
think that I have been receiving everything from him for years, living
upon his bounty, and yet making no return, evincing no gratitude,
taking all his kindness as a matter of course, just because I imagined
I was dear to him for my parents’ sake!’

‘Nay; you are too hard upon yourself, dear Rose,’ I said gently. ‘To a
certain extent you have been grateful to him; you have again and again
acknowledged to me your sense of his goodness; and now that you know
all, you will clearly _prove_ your gratitude, I have no doubt.’

‘But how?’ exclaimed Rose. ‘How can I express—how can I shew my deep
sense of all that I owe him?’

‘In the first place, by getting well as soon as possible, and by
letting him see that you once more take an interest in life. For his
sake, I know you will strive to bear bravely a trial, the bitterness
of which he fully appreciates. And Rose, I must beg you not to attempt
to express to Mr Aslatt your sense of indebtedness. He feels a morbid
shrinking from hearing such words from your lips, and has implored
me—in case I ever revealed to you the secret of your early life, as I
have been led to do this evening—to assure you that you are under no
great obligation to him, for he considers that he has been fully repaid
for what he has done for you, by the happiness your companionship has
given him.’

‘But I cannot bear to go on receiving so much from him, and yet give no
expression to my gratitude,’ said Rose.

‘You cannot do otherwise,’ I replied; ‘unless you wish to make him
very unhappy, and that would be a poor return for all his goodness. Do
all you can to please him; be as bright and cheerful as possible; but
do not, I beseech you, let him see that you labour under a sense of
painful obligation to him.’

‘I will act as you desire,’ said Rose. ‘But is there really no other
way in which I can prove my gratitude?’

‘Not at present,’ I replied. ‘But perhaps at some future time you may
be able to give him what he will consider worth far more than all he
has ever bestowed upon you; but it would not be acceptable to him if it
proceeded only from the promptings of gratitude.’

‘I do not understand you,’ said Rose, though her cheek flushed.

‘Perhaps you may some day,’ I answered. ‘But now, darling, you must be
still, and not talk any more, else I am afraid you will not be so well
to-morrow.’

I had hard work to persuade her to be quiet, and though after a time
she refrained from talking in obedience to my repeated injunctions, I
could see her thoughts were dwelling on the communication I had made to
her. Only good results, however, followed from the excitement of that
evening. There was a tinge of pink on Rose’s delicate cheek the next
day; her countenance was brighter, and her manner more animated than we
had seen it for some time. Mr Aslatt was delighted at the change, and
encouraged by it, he began to talk to Rose of the plans he had formed
for taking her to Italy as soon as she felt strong enough to travel. He
was overjoyed to find that she made no objection to his proposal, but
even entered cheerfully into his plans, and declared that she should be
quite ready to start in the course of a few weeks. And so it proved,
for she gained strength with a rapidity which shewed the truth of the
doctor’s words, that she only needed to be roused in order to get well.

We started for the continent at the end of October. It was thought
that residence abroad during the winter months would promote Rose’s
restoration to health, and afford that diversion of mind which was
so desirable after the trying experience she had passed through. The
result was most satisfactory. There was no return of the apathetic
melancholy which had been so distressing to witness; and her enjoyment
of the various entertainments her kind friend provided for her was
unassumed. I began to hope that, after all, her attachment to Mr
Hammond had not been very deep, but merely a romantic fancy, kindled
by the thought of his misfortunes, and fanned into a flame by the
breath of opposition. A thousand little incidents strengthened this
conviction of mine. Every day it became evident that Rose was learning
to appreciate her guardian’s character more highly than she had done
before. She took a growing delight in his society, and indeed never
seemed quite at ease if he were absent.

When in the spring we returned to England, Rose’s health and spirits
had so completely returned, that she appeared little different from
the radiant girl whose loveliness had charmed me when I first looked
at her, save that her manner was gentler, being marked by a winning
humility and patience which her former bearing had lacked.

I did not long remain at Westwood Hall in the capacity of Rose’s
companion, though I have frequently visited it since as her friend. One
day soon after our return from Italy, she came to me with a bright and
blushing countenance, and whispered that she had a secret to tell me. I
had little doubt what the secret was, and could therefore help Rose out
with her confession, that Mr Aslatt had asked her to be his wife, and
that she had consented, though with some reluctance, caused by a sense
of her unworthiness.

‘I could not do otherwise,’ she said, ‘when he told me that the
happiness of his future life depended upon my answer; though I know how
little I deserve the love he bestows upon me.’

‘But Rose,’ I said, anxious to be relieved of a painful doubt, ‘you
have not, I trust, been led to a decision contrary to the dictates of
your heart? You know nothing would be further from Mr Aslatt’s desire
than that you should sacrifice your own inclinations from a mistaken
notion of his claims upon you. He would not be happy if he thought you
had only consented that you might not make him unhappy, and not because
your own happiness would be promoted by the union.’

‘I know that,’ murmured Rose, as her cheek took a deeper tint; ‘but it
is not so. I feel very differently towards Mr Aslatt from what I did
when you first knew me. I think him the best and noblest of men, and I
shall be proud and happy to be his wife; only I wish I were more worthy
of him. O Miss Bygrave! I cannot tell you how ashamed I feel, when I
think of the infatuation which led me to deceive so kind a friend,
or how intensely thankful I am that you saved me from a wicked act
which would have caused unspeakable misery for us both! I pity poor Mr
Hammond, and forgive him for the injury he so nearly inflicted upon me;
but I must confess to you that I never really had such confidence in
him or cared for him, as I now care for and trust the one whose love I
have slighted and undervalued so long.’

It only remains to add that shortly after that terrible scene at the
Priory, Mr Hammond disappeared, and it was thought, went abroad; but of
him and his wretched wife not a scrap of intelligence has ever reached
us.




THE MONTH:

SCIENCE AND ARTS.


In a lecture at the Royal Institution, Dr Tyndall has made known the
results of a long series of experiments on fog-signals, all involving
more or less of noise, and demonstrating that the noisiest are the
best. Mariners in a fog are helpless: no lights, no cliffs, no towers
can be seen, and they must be warned off the land through their
ears. So in conjunction with the Trinity House and the authorities
at Woolwich, the Professor fired guns of various kinds and sizes,
and very soon found that a short five-and-a-half-inch howitzer with
a three-pound charge of powder produced a louder report than an
eighteen-pounder with the same weight of charge. Thereupon guns of
different forms were constructed, and one among them which had a
parabolic muzzle proved to be the best, that is in throwing the sound
over the sea, and not wasting it to rearward over the land. Then it
was ascertained that fine-grained powder produces a louder report than
coarse-grained; the shock imparted to the air being more rapid in the
one case than in the other.

Experiments made with gun-cotton shewed conclusively that the cotton
was ‘loudest of all;’ and ‘fired in the focus of the reflector, the
gun-cotton clearly dominated over all the other sound-producers.’ The
reports were heard at distances varying from two to thirteen miles and
a half.

When the fog clears off, the noisy signals are laid aside and bright
lights all round the coast guide the seaman on his way. Some years
ago the old oil light was superseded by the magneto-electric light,
and this in turn has given place to the dynamo-electric light, which
excels all in brilliance and intensity. In this machine the required
movements are effected by steam or water power; and when the electric
current is thereby generated, it is conducted by wires to a second
machine, which co-operates in the work with remarkable economy and
efficiency. Readers desirous of knowing the improvements made in the
dynamo-electric machines by Messrs Siemens, and the experiments carried
on in lighthouses, should refer to the _Proceedings_ of the Institution
of Civil Engineers for the present session.

Particulars of a galvanic battery of extraordinary power have been
brought to this country from the United States. Instead of the carbon
plate commonly used as one of the elements in the cells, it has a
copper plate coated with lead and platinum; and a blowing apparatus
is so combined that a stream of air can be blown through the acid
liquid with which the cells are filled. The effects of this aeration
are remarkable: the galvanic current is rendered unusually powerful,
and a large amount of heat is developed. The way in which these
effects are produced is not yet satisfactorily made out; but that this
battery offers a new and potent means of investigation to chemists and
physicists cannot be doubted.

An account of an exclusively metallic cell has been given to the Royal
Society by Professors Ayrton and Perry of the Engineering College,
Tokio, Japan, in a paper on ‘Contact Theory of Voltaic Action.’ They
took strips of platinum and magnesium, which were in connection with
the electrodes of the electrometer, and dipped them into mercury,
and immediately saw evidence of a strong current. The experiments
were continued with much care until the Professors felt assured that
‘the electro-motive force obtained was about one and a half times the
electro-motive force of a Daniell’s cell.’ ‘It may be possible,’ they
remark further, ‘by mechanical or other means, or by using another
metal than magnesium, to give constancy to this arrangement; and as
its internal resistance is extremely small, the cell may be of great
practical use for the production of powerful currents.’

In a discussion about Iron at the meeting of the Iron and Steel
Institute, one of the speakers shewed that it was not so much quality
of metal as mechanical structure that constituted good iron. He took
certain railway bars and planed them, whereby he was enabled to examine
their structure, and he saw that some of the rails contained much
cinder, which accounted for their showing more signs of wear than
others. On sifting the shavings and passing a magnet over them, all the
iron could be taken out and the quantity of cinder ascertained; and not
until this cinder could be thoroughly got rid of would the manufacturer
be able to produce good iron. The same defect had been noticed in
Swedish iron made for a special purpose; and there was reason to fear
that manufacturers made more haste to send iron into the market than
to produce the best quality. Fortunately, a few scientific men have
introduced improvements which will in time abolish the rule of thumb
that has too long prevailed.

The manufacture of bricks from slag is still carried on at the Tees
Iron-works, Middlesbrough, by machines constructed for the purpose. The
slag, ground into sand, is mixed with lime, squeezed into moulds, and
each machine turns out about ten thousand bricks a day. Being pressed,
these bricks present advantages over ordinary bricks: they are uniform
in size and thickness; do not break; occasion less trouble to the
bricklayer and plasterer; require less mortar; and do not split when
nails are driven into them, whereby carpenters are saved the work of
plugging. Another important fact, which the labourers will appreciate,
is that the weight of a thousand slag bricks is one ton less than the
weight of a thousand red bricks; and as regards durability, we are
informed that the longer they are kept the harder they become.

An invention which simplifies photography out of doors may be said
to have claims on the attention of tourists and travellers, as well
as of professional photographers. To carry the bottles, liquids,
and other appliances at present required necessitates troublesome
baggage; but Mr Chardon of Paris shews that all this may be avoided
by the use of his ‘Dry bromide of silver emulsion.’ This preparation,
a mixture of collodion and the bromide, will keep an indefinite time
in bottles excluded from the light, and does not suffer from varying
temperatures. Specimens carried to China, and back by way of the Red
Sea, underwent no alteration; an important consideration for travellers
and astronomers who wish to take photographs in tropical countries.
When required for use the bromide is mixed in certain proportions with
ether and alcohol; the plates are coated with this solution, and as
soon as dry are ready for the photographer. They require no further
preparation, and retain their sensibility through many months. The
image may be developed immediately or after some weeks, according to
circumstances; in proof of which photographs taken at Aden have been
developed in Paris. But a very small quantity of water is necessary,
and the image may be transferred to a film of gelatine or a sheet of
paper at pleasure, which lessens the risk of breakage, and the plates
may be used for fresh pictures.

An account has been published of the disturbance and destruction which
the telegraph lines in Germany underwent during the widespread storm
one night in March 1876. The destruction was so very great, that had
the storm occurred during a political crisis or a war, the consequences
might have been much more calamitous. This liability to derangement
has in nearly all countries led practical minds to conclude that
underground telegraphs are preferable to lines carried on posts through
the air; and the German government have laid underground wires from
Berlin to Mainz (Mayence), a distance of about three hundred and eighty
miles, which will afford excellent means for comparing the two systems.

Vast as are the forests of the United States, Americans are finding out
that they are not inexhaustible. The annual product of ‘lumber,’ which
means timber in all its forms, is estimated at ten thousand million
feet, a quantity sufficient to make a perceptible gap in the broadest
of forests. Among the heaviest items of consumption are the railways
with their eighty thousand miles of sleepers, to say nothing of ties,
bridges, platforms, and fences. The average ‘life’ of the wood when
laid in the ground is from four to six years; and each year’s renewal
is said to use up one-sixth of the enormous product above mentioned.
These facts have led some thinking constructors to reconsider the
national objection to precautions, and they now advocate the use of
preserved timber, and have invented a method of preservation. The
principal part of the apparatus is a large air-tight iron cylinder
one hundred feet long, into which the wood is run on rails; all the
openings are closed; steam at a high temperature is forced in, and
the process is maintained until every part of the wood is heated up
to two hundred and twelve degrees. The steam is then driven from the
cylinder; heat is applied; then a vacuum is produced, and ‘many barrels
of sap’ pour from the wood. Creosote oil is then forced into the
cylinder. ‘Every stick is at once bathed with oil. The wood, being in a
soft somewhat spongy condition, the fibres porous, and the pores open,
absorbs at once the hot penetrating oil. If the wood be of a porous
character like pine, it absorbs all the oil required in the first flow
without any pressure; but if the fibre be solid and close and the
timber of a large size, a further pressure of from sixty to one hundred
and fifty pounds is needed to make the impregnation complete.’ This
process reminds us of one on a somewhat similar principle which was
noticed in this _Journal_ for November 25, 1876.

In an address to the Royal Geological Society of Ireland, Sir Robert
Kane remarked on the activity prevailing among the geologists and
chemists of that country in investigation of their mineral resources.
The search for fluorine in rocks has had favourable results; and the
discovery of phosphoric acid is regarded as an indication of the
extent to which organic remains were included originally in those
mineral masses. Certain beds described by geologists as lower Silurian
and Cambrian, destitute of fossils, nevertheless contain such traces
of phosphorus as shew that they must have been formed in seas rich
in organic life. These facts, as Sir R. Kane shewed, are of special
interest in Ireland, where, owing to the rareness of those newer
formations which furnish the valuable coprolite beds of Cambridge and
Suffolk, such sources of agricultural wealth are absent; but where the
older strata being so largely developed offer resources for discovery
of accumulated organic remains which may be turned to good account in
fertilising the soil.

Professor Boyd Dawkins, F.R.S., in discoursing to the Manchester
Geological Society, mentioned the discovery of fresh evidence of the
antiquity of man. Certain caves in Cresswell Crags, on the borders
of Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire, have been recently explored, and
the relics thereby brought to light prove that man lived in the
hunter-stage of civilisation in the valley of the Trent and its
tributaries, along with the mammoth, woolly rhinoceros, cave-hyena,
lion and reindeer, and that he was capable of progress. In the lowest
stratum in the caves, says Professor Dawkins, implements are found of
the rudest kind and roughest form, made of quartzite pebbles from the
neighbourhood. In the middle stratum implements of flint appear mingled
with the others; but in the uppermost stratum the tools and implements
are of flint, and of the best kind. Among these are bone needles and
other appliances of bone and horn, on one of which is rudely engraved a
figure of a horse. ‘This sequence,’ remarks the Professor, ‘establishes
the fact, that even in the palæolithic age the hunters of reindeer,
horse, mammoth, and other creatures were progressive, and that the
cave-dwellers of the pleistocene age are to be looked upon from the
same point of view as mankind at the present time, as “one man always
living and incessantly learning.”’ If Professor Dawkins is right in
his conjecture, the cave-dwellers of the very remote period which he
describes were somewhat like the Eskimos of the present day.

To this we may add the fact, that rude stone implements have been found
in the ‘glacial drift’ in New Jersey, United States, and that some
geologists regard this as proof that man lived on the earth during
that far-back, dreary, and cold glacial period.

In the course of the admirable surveys of their wide-spread territory
carried on by authority of the United States government, discovery
has been made of strange and interesting remains of habitations,
implements, and pottery of a long-departed and forgotten people,
who once occupied the region about the head-waters of the San Juan.
Photographers and geologists among the surveying parties have by means
of pictures, drawings, and descriptions produced a Report, which will
in due time be published at Washington. Meanwhile models of the ancient
ruins have been constructed in plaster, and compared with the dwellings
of certain Indian tribes in New Mexico and Arizona; and these latter,
with allowance for contact with Europeans, are at once recognised as
bearing traces of the dwellings of the forgotten people. ‘Forgotten,’
says an American contemporary, ‘because the builders of the modern
structures are as ignorant of the ancient builders as we are ourselves.’

A correspondent suggests that the ‘stencils’ produced by Edison’s
Electric Pen might be used as communications for blind people, whose
sensitive fingers would, he thinks, feel out the meaning of the
very slight roughness of the surface of the paper occasioned by the
punctures. Why does he not try the experiment? Meanwhile we mention
that a naturalist in New York has produced a Catalogue of Diatomaceæ by
means of the Electric Pen, and published it in quarto form for private
distribution.

Another correspondent informs us that the horse-shoe described in
the _Month_ (July 1877) as brought into use in Philadelphia with
satisfactory results, was invented in England in 1870 by Mr C. J.
Carr. A statement printed in 1874 sets forth that the shoe is made of
malleable iron in such a way ‘as to allow of the natural growth of
the frog while completely shielding the foot. On the face of the shoe
is a hollow semi-circular cavity, which is filled with a pad of hemp
and tar; and as no calkins or spikes are required, one of the dangers
incident to roughing is entirely obviated.’ We wish success to any one
who will persevere in applying common-sense and kindness to the shoeing
of horses.

The _Japan Daily Herald_ of 31st January states that when the
telephone was brought under the notice of the Japanese government,
Mr Ito, the (native) Minister of Public Works, at once ordered
experiments to be made. These were carried out by Mr Gilbert, Telegraph
Superintendent-in-chief to the Japanese government, and formerly of
Edinburgh. The experiments were so satisfactory that they were followed
by the establishment of telephonic communication between the police
stations in the metropolis and between the Emperor’s palace and the
various government departments. When the Public Works Department and
the palace were first put in telephonic union, the Emperor and Empress
were present, and expressed great surprise at the result. The English
newspaper, in recording this fact, adds, ‘As well their Majesties
might;’ and it proceeds to speculate whether the Chinese, who have
opposed telegraphs and railways, will ‘give ear to the telephone.’ No
great expectation appears to be entertained that the Chinese will do
anything of the kind.




TWO HEARTS.

(Suggested by the picture ‘In Memoriam.’)


    In the sunlight, darting, dancing,
    Birds amid the green leaves glancing,
                          Gaily sing:
    In the balmy air entrancing,
                          Breathes the Spring.

    ’Tis the dearest hour of daytime;
    In the merry, merry Maytime,
                          Who’d be sad?
    Nature revels in her playtime;
                          All is glad.

    Who is this that cometh slowly?
    ’Tis a maiden meek and lowly;
                          In her eyes,
    Look of resignation holy
                          Shadowy lies.

    Heeds she not the golden gleaming
    Of the sunlight softly streaming
                          Through the leaves:
    Still her soul is darkly dreaming;
                          Still she grieves.

    He her heart to win had striven;
    She her heart to him had given;
                          Hope hath fled—
    Heart from heart for aye is riven:
                          He is dead.

    Mid the cruel cannon’s rattle,
    Passed his soul forth in the battle—
                          Soul that cried
    To Heaven for her from the battle
                          Ere he died.

    On the day when, heavy-hearted,
    He had from his love departed
                          For the fray,
    While each heart with sorrow smarted—
                          On that day

    He had left a little token,
    That if earthly ties were broken,
                          On the tree
    Tender tie, though all unspoken,
                          Still might be.

    He had carved two hearts united—
    Sign of troth and promise plighted;
                          Sign that they
    True will be till death-benighted,
                          Come what may.

    He in each heart—sign that never
    Time shall one from other sever—
                          Graved each name;
    Sign that they will be for ever
                          Still the same.

    Daily comes she here to borrow
    Short relief from sorest sorrow,
                          Partial peace,
    Till when on her life’s To-morrow
                          Grief shall cease.

    So she dreams of heavenly meeting,
    Hears her lost love’s tender greeting
                          Mid the blest,
    Where beyond these troubles fleeting,
                          There is rest.

    Hearts which here were disunited,
    Hearts whose hopes on earth were blighted,
                          On that shore
    Rest, in perfect peace delighted,
                          Evermore.

       *       *       *       *       *

Printed and Published by W. & R. CHAMBERS, 47 Paternoster Row, LONDON,
and 339 High Street, EDINBURGH.

       *       *       *       *       *

_All Rights Reserved._





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Chambers's Journal of Popular
Literature, Science, and Art,, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHAMBERS'S JOURNAL ***

***** This file should be named 63247-0.txt or 63247-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/2/4/63247/

Produced by Susan Skinner and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
